# Migrating from 0.2.x to 0.3.x

## Meta Started Format

Version 0.3.x primarily involved a number of internal changes to make meta-data more stable by implementing validation of meta values.

This required changing the format of `tier.started` from `YYYY/MM/DD` to a timezone aware datetime isostring e.g. `2023-08-29 00:00:00+01:00`.

Cassini version `0.3.x` includes a migration tool to automatically upgrade your meta files to the new format.

Once you have upgraded Cassini, you can run:

```bash
python -m cassini.migrate 0.2 0.3 --cassini-project=project.py:project
```

Where `--cassini-project` is the path to your `project.py`, and `:project` is the name of your project object.

This will iterate through your tiers and upgrade `started` to the new format. As started is now a datetime, the tool will set the time to the start of the day
and use your locale timezone.

## Renaming project.py to cas_project.py

It was decided that having a `project` object in `project.py` could be a bit confusing, thus in version 0.3.x, Cassini recommends naming the file where you
define your project object `cas_project.py`. 

The Cassini JupyterLab gui needs to be able to find your `project` object. If you use `project.launch()` to run JupyterLab, this is done automatically.

If `launch()` isn't used, by default in version `0.2.x`, Cassini would look for `project.py:project`, but in version `0.3.x`, it now looks for `cas_project.py:project` by default.

If you are _not_ using `project.launch()` to launch JupyterLab, you may need to explicitly point the JupyterLab extension to your project object by setting:

```bash
SET CASSINI_PROJECT=project.py:project
``` 

On Windows, or on mac/ linux:

```bash
export CASSINI_PROJECT=project.py:project
```

## Splitting up TierBase

In Cassini `0.2.x`, to create custom Tier classes, you would subclass the `TierBase` baseclass.

This made it challenging to distinguish when a Tier did or did not have a Notebook and Meta associated with it.

In version `0.3.x` `TierBase` has been split into `NotebookTierBase` and `FolderTierBase`. Depending if your Tier has a Notebook or just a folder 
associated with it, you should use the new baseclass.

## Home has no Notebook

In versions prior to `0.3.x` the `Home` tier had a notebook associated with it. This was in part because these used the `ipygui` and the `Home` header acted a bit like the Cassini Browser. If you require a `Home` notebook, you should create a custom subclass of the existing `Home` class.

For example:

```python
from cassini import Project, NotebookTierBase, WorkPackage, Experiment, Sample, DataSet

class MyHome(NotebookTierBase):
    pretty_type = "Home"
    
    @property
    def name(self):
        return self.pretty_type
        
    @property
    def folder(self):
        return self.project.project_folder / (self.child_cls.pretty_type + "s")
        
    @property
    def file(self):
        return self.project.project_folder / 'Home.ipynb'
    
    @property
    def meta_file(self):  # notebook tiers _have_ to have meta and highlights now.
        return self.project.project_folder / 'home-meta.json'
        
    @property
    def highlights_file(self):
        return self.project.project_folder / 'home-hlts.json'

project = Project(hierarchy=[MyHome, WorkPackage, Experiment, Sample, DataSet], project_folder=__file__)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    project.launch()
```
